Let us look at the different
strategies in
pricing.
I really want you to keep in mind
that I think it’s impossible to
make a complete classification and
the classifications there don’t
convince me too much because all
concepts are complementary, etc.
But what is important, with what I
want you to stay, is that all of
the things we’re going to see sound
you, you understand them and that
if someday you see yourself in the
position of having to fix prices,
of having to define the price fixing
strategy, at least they sound you
and you can analyze if they can
apply in your case or not.
We’ll start with a matrix that we
have on screen and that’s a matrix
that it does intend to be a complete
classification, but it’s not.
This helps to understand
how the different strategies
are.
We have, in this matrix, what we
determine is in the axis of the X,
in the horizontal axis, the degree
of competitive advantage and what
we will classify is between competitors
or companies that seek more quality,
who seek to differentiate
by, who seek differentiation
and those who seek to differentiate
by cost leadership.
And on the X axis, what we
have on the vertical axis, what
we have is prices and we will
come out with higher or lower prices.
Then seeing this matrix what we see
is that in green we have two strategies
that are very logical and that you
should already know because they
are very aligned with the
generic strategies of Michael Porter
and it is if we have a high quality
product with a great competitive
advantage in differentiation,
what we do is to set
a high price.
Why is?
Because our customers are willing
to pay that price and we have
called it premium, a premium
pricing strategy and we have
the opposite case, that
are the competitors
who are looking for cost leadership,
who have made an effort
to be more efficient, to
reduce as much as possible
their cost structure and what
they do is to always
put low prices, a low cost
pricing strategy.
So far it is very simple and very
logical.
What happens is that we have two
other strategies we have in and that
are more temporary strategies and
we go to the first that we have
called penetration.
Penetration strategy is given when
a company with a certain degree
of imagining a quality product,
a certain degree of differentiation,
competitive advantage,
etc., what it does is enter a
market with an initial low
price strategy, we call it
penetration strategy because
the goal of this strategy is
to win quickly what
it will do then is to
raise prices and we could
put a lot of examples.
Amazon Prime, the share of Amazon
Prime are between 20 and 30 euros
per year, is very economical and
Amazon offers many services within
this share, among them offers
Amazon Prime Video that is a
platform for movies and series
in streaming as can be Netflix.
What’s clear is that Amazon with
this pricing strategy is looking to
win customers, is looking to
steal customers from the competition,
and is very likely to eventually
end up raising them or at least
monetizing those customers or
making them profitable in other
ways.
This is the penetration and we
have the opposite that is called in English
skimming.
Skimming is the translation of
disassembled although I think
that in Spanish the concept of disassembled
is not intuitive for this strategy, we
could translate it as a strategy
to initially grind the market that
doesn’t sound very well but is
more representative and here we
are referring to it.
We will think of a company that
launches a product and that
the product is within the product
life cycle, is in one of its first
phases, is in the introduction
phase, in the growth phase you
should know how the life
cycle works, in those first phases
what you do is to address early
adopters, people who demand
that product and who are willing
to pay much more and are
well understood with the example
of mobile phones in
the 90s, in the early 90s
especially or in the late
80s that were very expensive.
It’s a clear skimming strategy,
these companies what allowed them
to go out to the market with those
high prices is to get a lot of cast
that allows them to invest
in and more to invest in
growth and so on.
Therefore, we have four strategies
that we draw in this matrix, two
are more permanent strategies
that are very related to
the generic strategies such as
being a premium competitor
or looking for the low cost and in
addition we have two other strategies
that are more temporary such
as penetration, very
low prices to win a lot of
share or the skimming strategy
that is temporarily in the
first phases of introduction
of the product’s life cycle
to put very high prices that
allow us to reinforce a little
treasury.